README.md, before:

<p align="center">
	<img src="./pics/webp_server.png"/>
</p>

[![CI](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/CI.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/CI.yaml)
[![build docker image](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_binary.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_binary.yaml)
[![Release WebP Server Go Binaries](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_docker_image.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_docker_image.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/webp-sh/webp_server_go/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=VR3BMZME65)](https://codecov.io/gh/webp-sh/webp_server_go)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/webpsh/webp-server-go?style=plastic)

[Documentation](https://docs.webp.sh/) | [Website](https://webp.sh/)

This is a Server based on Golang, which allows you to serve WebP images on the fly. 
It will convert `jpg,jpeg,png` files by default, this can be customized by editing the `config.json`.. 
* currently supported image format: JPEG, PNG, BMP, GIF(static image for now)

> e.g When you visit `https://your.website/pics/tsuki.jpg`，it will serve as `image/webp` format without changing the URL.
>
> ~~For Safari and Opera users, the original image will be used.~~
> We've now supported Safari/Chrome/Firefox on iOS 14/iPadOS 14

## Simple Usage Steps(with Binary)

> Note: There is a potential memory leak problem with this server and remains unsolved, we recommend using Docker to mitigate this problem.
> Related discussion: https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/issues/75

### 1. Prepare the environment

#### If you are using version after 0.6.0

> Install `libvips` on your machine, more info [here](https://github.com/davidbyttow/govips)
>
> * Ubuntu `apt install libvips-dev`
> * macOS `brew install vips pkg-config`

#### If you are using version before 0.6.0

> If you'd like to run binary directly on your machine, you need to install `libaom`:
>
> `libaom` is for AVIF support, you can install it by `apt install libaom-dev` on Ubuntu, `yum install libaom-devel` on CentOS.
>
> Without this library, you may encounter error like this: `libaom.so.3: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory`
>
> If you are using Intel Mac, you can install it by `brew install aom`
>
> If you are using Apple Silicon, you need to `brew install aom && export CPATH=/opt/homebrew/opt/aom/include/;LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/homebrew/opt/aom/lib/`, more references can be found at [在M1 Mac下开发WebP Server Go | 土豆不好吃](https://dmesg.app/m1-aom.html).
>
> If you don't like to hassle around with your system, so do us, why not have a try using Docker? >> [Docker | WebP Server Documentation](https://docs.webp.sh/usage/docker/)

### 2. Download the binary

Download the `webp-server-linux-amd64` from [Releases](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/releases) page.

### 3. Dump config file

```
./webp-server-linux-amd64 -dump-config > config.json
```

The default `config.json` may look like this.
```json
{
  "HOST": "127.0.0.1",
  "PORT": "3333",
  "QUALITY": "80",
  "IMG_PATH": "/path/to/pics",
  "EXHAUST_PATH": "/path/to/exhaust",
  "ALLOWED_TYPES": ["jpg","png","jpeg","bmp"],
  "ENABLE_AVIF": false,
  "ENABLE_EXTRA_PARAMS": false
}
```

> `ENABLE_AVIF` means AVIF support, it's disabled by default as converting images to AVIF is CPU consuming.
>
> `ENABLE_EXTRA_PARAMS` means whether to enable Extra Parameters, basically it allows you to do some transform on images like `https://img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg?width=20`, you can find more info on [Extra Parameters](https://docs.webp.sh/usage/extra-params/) page.


#### Config Example

In the following example, the image path and website URL.

| Image Path                            | Website Path                         |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `/var/www/img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg` | `https://img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg` |

The `IMG_PATH` inside `config.json` should be like:

| IMG_PATH               |
| ---------------------- |
| `/var/www/img.webp.sh` |


`EXHAUST_PATH` is cache folder for output `webp` images, with `EXHAUST_PATH` set to `/var/cache/webp` 
in the example above, your `webp` image will be saved at `/var/cache/webp/pics/tsuki.jpg.1582558990.webp`.

### 3. Run

```
./webp-server-linux-amd64 --config=/path/to/config.json
```

### 4. Nginx proxy_pass

Let Nginx to `proxy_pass http://localhost:3333/;`, and your WebP Server is on-the-fly.

## Advanced Usage

For supervisor, Docker sections or detailed Nginx configuration, please read our documentation at [https://docs.webp.sh/](https://docs.webp.sh/)

## Support us

If you find this project useful, please consider supporting
us by [becoming a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/webp-sh) or Stripe

| USD(Card, Apple Pay and Google Pay)              | SEK(Card, Apple Pay and Google Pay)              | CNY(Card, Apple Pay, Google Pay and Alipay)      |
|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [USD](https://buy.stripe.com/cN203sdZB98RevC3cd) | [SEK](https://buy.stripe.com/bIYbMa9JletbevCaEE) | [CNY](https://buy.stripe.com/dR67vU4p13Ox73a6oq) |
| ![](pics/USD.png)                                | ![](pics/SEK.png)                                | ![](pics/CNY.png)                                |

## License

WebP Server is under the GPLv3. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

lazy mode: async image convert implementation using queues and worker pools

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
	<img src="./pics/webp_server.png"/>
</p>

[![CI](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/CI.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/CI.yaml)
[![build docker image](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_binary.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_binary.yaml)
[![Release WebP Server Go Binaries](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_docker_image.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/actions/workflows/release_docker_image.yaml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/webp-sh/webp_server_go/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=VR3BMZME65)](https://codecov.io/gh/webp-sh/webp_server_go)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/webpsh/webp-server-go?style=plastic)

[Documentation](https://docs.webp.sh/) | [Website](https://webp.sh/)

This is a Server based on Golang, which allows you to serve WebP images on the fly. 
It will convert `jpg,jpeg,png` files by default, this can be customized by editing the `config.json`.. 
* currently supported image format: JPEG, PNG, BMP, GIF(static image for now)

> e.g When you visit `https://your.website/pics/tsuki.jpg`，it will serve as `image/webp` format without changing the URL.
>
> ~~For Safari and Opera users, the original image will be used.~~
> We've now supported Safari/Chrome/Firefox on iOS 14/iPadOS 14

## Simple Usage Steps(with Binary)

> Note: There is a potential memory leak problem with this server and remains unsolved, we recommend using Docker to mitigate this problem.
> Related discussion: https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/issues/75

### 1. Prepare the environment

#### If you are using version after 0.6.0

> Install `libvips` on your machine, more info [here](https://github.com/davidbyttow/govips)
>
> * Ubuntu `apt install libvips-dev`
> * macOS `brew install vips pkg-config`

#### If you are using version before 0.6.0

> If you'd like to run binary directly on your machine, you need to install `libaom`:
>
> `libaom` is for AVIF support, you can install it by `apt install libaom-dev` on Ubuntu, `yum install libaom-devel` on CentOS.
>
> Without this library, you may encounter error like this: `libaom.so.3: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory`
>
> If you are using Intel Mac, you can install it by `brew install aom`
>
> If you are using Apple Silicon, you need to `brew install aom && export CPATH=/opt/homebrew/opt/aom/include/;LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/homebrew/opt/aom/lib/`, more references can be found at [在M1 Mac下开发WebP Server Go | 土豆不好吃](https://dmesg.app/m1-aom.html).
>
> If you don't like to hassle around with your system, so do us, why not have a try using Docker? >> [Docker | WebP Server Documentation](https://docs.webp.sh/usage/docker/)

### 2. Download the binary

Download the `webp-server-linux-amd64` from [Releases](https://github.com/webp-sh/webp_server_go/releases) page.

### 3. Dump config file

```
./webp-server-linux-amd64 -dump-config > config.json
```

The default `config.json` may look like this.
```json
{
  "HOST": "127.0.0.1",
  "PORT": "3333",
  "QUALITY": "80",
  "IMG_PATH": "/path/to/pics",
  "EXHAUST_PATH": "/path/to/exhaust",
  "ALLOWED_TYPES": ["jpg","png","jpeg","bmp"],
  "ENABLE_AVIF": false,
  "ENABLE_EXTRA_PARAMS": false
}
```

> `ENABLE_AVIF` means AVIF support, it's disabled by default as converting images to AVIF is CPU consuming.
>
> `ENABLE_EXTRA_PARAMS` means whether to enable Extra Parameters, basically it allows you to do some transform on images like `https://img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg?width=20`, you can find more info on [Extra Parameters](https://docs.webp.sh/usage/extra-params/) page.


#### Config Example

In the following example, the image path and website URL.

| Image Path                            | Website Path                         |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `/var/www/img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg` | `https://img.webp.sh/path/tsuki.jpg` |

The `IMG_PATH` inside `config.json` should be like:

| IMG_PATH               |
| ---------------------- |
| `/var/www/img.webp.sh` |


`EXHAUST_PATH` is cache folder for output `webp` images, with `EXHAUST_PATH` set to `/var/cache/webp` 
in the example above, your `webp` image will be saved at `/var/cache/webp/pics/tsuki.jpg.1582558990.webp`.

### 3. Run

```
./webp-server-linux-amd64 --config=/path/to/config.json
```

### 4. Nginx proxy_pass

Let Nginx to `proxy_pass http://localhost:3333/;`, and your WebP Server is on-the-fly.

## Advanced Usage

For supervisor, Docker sections or detailed Nginx configuration, please read our documentation at [https://docs.webp.sh/](https://docs.webp.sh/)

### Lazy mode notes

`-lazy` flag makes the server to process images in the background. It is designed to provide fastest possible responses, but optimized formats might take some seconds to be available. 

You might use this mode when you want to limit CPU and RAM resources consumption. For example, when a AVIF is enabled, the system might use up to #CPU * 1GB for the server to process #CPU concurrent AVIF image conversions.

```
# For example, with a 4CPU, 4GB RAM system running with the following parameters:
./webp-server-linux-amd64 -lazy
```

Can consume up to `1024 * 4` (Heavy/Avif conversions) =~ 4.0GB of RAM

For a minimal footprint, adapt the number of background heavy jobs (`-lazy-heavy-jobs` flag) to the amount of RAM you can dedicate to the process. 

```
# For example, with a 4CPU, 4GB RAM system running with the following parameters:
./webp-server-linux-amd64 -lazy -lazy-heavy-jobs 1
```

Can consume up to `128MB * 3` (Default/Webp parallel conversions) + `1024 * 1` (Heavy/Avif conversions) =~ 1.5GB of RAM


## Support us

If you find this project useful, please consider supporting
us by [becoming a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/webp-sh) or Stripe

| USD(Card, Apple Pay and Google Pay)              | SEK(Card, Apple Pay and Google Pay)              | CNY(Card, Apple Pay, Google Pay and Alipay)      |
|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [USD](https://buy.stripe.com/cN203sdZB98RevC3cd) | [SEK](https://buy.stripe.com/bIYbMa9JletbevCaEE) | [CNY](https://buy.stripe.com/dR67vU4p13Ox73a6oq) |
| ![](pics/USD.png)                                | ![](pics/SEK.png)                                | ![](pics/CNY.png)                                |

## License

WebP Server is under the GPLv3. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
